---
<!-- layout: post
title: "Week 6"
date: 2015-06-01 15:46:21
categories: weekly
permalink: week-6
--- -->

I began the week with the creation of a very simple bookshelf app using AJAX and jQuery to display json data from a back-end.  This quickly turned into a full MEAN stack app as I discovered how much easier Angular makes everything when it comes to handling and displaying API data.  

After this I moved on to finish the next responsive portfolio website, this one was created from a PSD design document I found, extracting the layers and positioning everything as it was on the design.  It's been a good experience, I have become a lot more comfortable writing sass from memory, I also used the saved colour variables and mix-ins properly.  The only thing I haven't really been able to recreate was the font, I could have used the text objects from the PSD, but I felt like that was missing the point a bit when it comes to practicing re-creation.  

On top of this I started off a very simple Socket.io web chat app which was really fun, I want to move on top more complex apps using sockets pretty quickly, I've seen some interesting things involving real time updates from twitter which I'd like to have a go at modifying.

Next week I want to create a few more node apps, I've read about the file system module, so I want to create something that records information to file, maybe something to do with socket.io and twitter as well.

After this I want to create a new site from PSD again, this time with the inclusion of some parallax or scroll effects, such as a static background or layers moving at different speeds.

###Primary
- Write/read to/from file with node.
- Twitter integration with socket.io.
- Parallax effect site from PSD.

###Secondary
- First ThreeJS 3d canvas app.
- Two more 2d canvas apps.

###Reading
- Clean Code: A Handbook of Agile Software Craftmanship, Robert C. Martin. (continue from page 90)
