---
layout: post
title: "Week 3"
date: 2015-05-16 15:46:21
categories: weekly
permalink: week-3
---

What I was trying to avoid has happened; my side projects have reverted to dribs and drabs of work again.  The two weeks of one page a day went well but, I quickly ran out of smaller ideas and moved onto larger ones which have become disjointed.

This week I started work on a second Jekyll site (after creating this one) which uses sass and a css library I haven't used before called bourbon.  I created the site to showcase an artists portfolio and I have learned a lot about the design aspect of web-design in the process, coming from a solely programming background is was almost all new to me.  I plan to finish the site and get it hosted tomorrow, it will become the first of many I will be able to showcase if I turn my hand to freelance web-design in the future.

Over the next week I want to start creating smaller javascript apps again to keep my hand in with jQuery and Angular.  I'd like to create a small store page with JSON data displayed with Angular controllers.

Later in the week I will move back to the design aspect and complete a few tutorials I have found for some of the more complex aesthetics I have seen around the web.  These will hopefully include the paralax effect and some more fiddly sass.

On the backburner I need to work out how to properly host a ruby on rails app with cPanel.  It's a bit ridiculous that I can now create a fully function ruby on rails application, but I can't host it on anything other than the painfully slow heroku free service.  I must be overthinking it because I know it can be done, I just havent read enough yet... Once I get it up and running on my faster server, I'll be able to get my teeth into persistent data and much more interesting apps.

##Checklist for the week of 18/5/2015
* ~~Host the portfolio site~~
* ~~Basic Angular store app~~  looks terrible, but works! Need to fix the css
* More complex sass Jekyll site
* Host RoR apps with cPanel