---
layout: post
title: "Week 4"
date: 2015-05-24 15:46:21
categories: weekly
permalink: week-4
---

This week I learned that writing up an MSc thesis is lot harder than I thought it would be; I spend 99% of my time reading papers I read 12 months 
earlier, 0.5% of my time writing, and 0.5% of my time re-writing the little I have written.

I have learned a lot about web tech in my spare time though, so I do at least I have a fair bit to write about on the blog this week.

My first task this week was to finish up and host the Jekyll one page app I started last week.  More information about that task can be found in my previous [blog post][1].

Secondly I took a plunge into AngularJS by finishing off the [shaping up with Angular][2] tutorial I had started previously.  The Angular tutorial was fantastic, it took around three hours to complete, and I would heartily reccomend it to anyone starting Angular.  It covers what seems to be all of the basics, starting with a simple module interacting with the HTML using directives, before guiding you through the creation of a fully modularised store
application that utilises dependecy injections and handling information from an HTTP API.

Later in the week I created a quick jQuery app just to keep my hand in with selectors, I also covered some new ground, using new HTML tags as well as caching tag searches to improve efficiency. 

I've also spent a lot of time researching the next technology I want to tackle; node js.  I've established a few tutorials I think will teach me everything I need to know and I am now ready to start coding as soon as possible.

##Next week's goals:

I want to get to grips with node js, my end goal is to create a coffee shop or restaurant order Angular app, which will POST or GET orders from a
very simple node API.  From what I've read this will involved utilising node, express and probably grunt to create a small server to store the 
information in what I expect will be a postgreSQL database (I presume this because I may eventually host it on Heroku, which I have used before, 
but hosting is not a priority).

###Primary
- <s>Get to grips with node - hello world simple server and a simple HTTP API</s>.  26/05/15 -Finished the first tutorial. Working 
node app with Express.js framework.  Nodemon running for lack of --watch command as found in Jekyll.  Simple Api which responds with 
JSON file up and running.
- <s>Working API with database.</s> - 29/05/15, Simple movie database in node with Create and Read functionality.  
- Small AJAX app which interacts with the API - not yet complete, first task for next week.
- <s>Small angular app which interacts with API</s> 01/06/15, A bit late but working "Hacker News" clone, Seenit.

###Secondary
-Upload the three rails apps to my 'sites' repo on github.  my simple pinterest clone, the twitter clone and the blog.


[1]: /week-3.1
[2]: https://www.codeschool.com/courses/shaping-up-with-angular-js